# gen_val2var2stat

Get values from variables from a statistic. Values for continuous
variables cannot be extracted, so the function returns a warning
message.

## Usage

``` r
gen_val2var2stat(
  code = NULL,
  database = c("all", "genesis", "zensus", "regio", "bayern", "nrw", "bildung", "st"),
  area = c("all", "public", "user"),
  detailed = FALSE,
  credential_list = NULL,
  sortcriterion = c("code", "content"),
  pagelength = 500,
  error.ignore.var = FALSE,
  error.ignore.val = TRUE,
  verbose = TRUE,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- code:

  Character string with a maximum length of 15 characters. Code from a
  database object. Only one code per iteration.

- database:

  Character string. Indicator if the GENESIS ('genesis'), Zensus 2022
  ('zensus'), regionalstatistik.de ('regio'), statistikdaten.bayern.de
  ('bayern'), landesdatenbank.nrw.de ('nrw'), bildungsmonitoring.de
  ('bildung') or genesis.sachsen-anhalt.de ('st') database is called. If
  all databases should be checked, use 'all'. Default option is 'all'.

- area:

  Character string. Indicator from which area of the database the
  results are called. In general, 'all' is the appropriate solution.
  Default option is 'all'. Not used for 'statistics'.

- detailed:

  Boolean. Indicator if the function should return the detailed output
  of the iteration including all object-related information or only a
  shortened output including only code and object title. Default option
  is 'FALSE'.

- credential_list:

  A list containing the credentials for the databases to be accessed. If
  'NULL' (default), the function will use the stored credentials from
  [`gen_auth_get()`](https://correlaid.github.io/restatis/reference/gen_auth_get.md).

- sortcriterion:

  Character string. Indicator if the output should be sorted by 'code'
  or 'content'. This is a parameter of the API call itself. The default
  is 'code'.

- pagelength:

  Integer. Maximum length of results or objects (e.g., number of
  tables). Defaults to 500. Maximum of the databases is 25,000 objects.

- error.ignore.var:

  Boolean. Indicator for variables if the function should stop if an
  error occurs or no object for the request is found or if it should
  produce a token as response. Default option is 'FALSE'. Important
  note: This does not apply to errors generated by the API call itself
  (especially server or client errors with status codes 5xx or 4xx). In
  this case, the function call will error even if error.ignore is set to
  TRUE.

- error.ignore.val:

  Boolean. Indicator for values if the function should stop if an error
  occurs or no object for the request is found or if it should produce a
  token as response. Default option is 'TRUE', this prevents the
  function to stop even if a variable has no further explanation (often
  the case for numerical variables). Important note: This does not apply
  to errors generated by the API call itself (especially server or
  client errors with status codes 5xx or 4xx). In this case, the
  function call will error even if error.ignore is set to TRUE.

- verbose:

  Boolean. Indicator if the output of the function should include
  detailed messages and warnings. Default option is 'TRUE'. Set the
  parameter to 'FALSE' to suppress additional messages and warnings.

- ...:

  Additional parameters for the API call. These parameters are only
  affecting the call itself, no further processing. For more details see
  [`vignette("additional_parameter")`](https://correlaid.github.io/restatis/articles/additional_parameter.md).

## Value

A list with all recalled elements from the API. Based on the 'detailed'
parameter it contains more or less information, but always includes the
code of the object, the title, and the type of the object. This is done
to facilitate further processing with the data. Attributes are added to
the data.frame describing the search configuration for the returned
output.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Find the values of variables in a specific statistic with
# the code "21111" and a detailed description of the variables
object <- gen_val2var2stat(code = "21111", detailed = TRUE)
} # }
```
