# Search For Meta-Information For All Types Of Objects

Search for metadata-information for all types of objects and databases
and have them returned as a list.

## Usage

``` r
gen_metadata(
  code = NULL,
  database = c("all", "genesis", "zensus", "regio", "bayern", "nrw", "bildung", "sa"),
  category = c("cube", "statistic", "table", "variable", "value"),
  area = c("all", "public", "user"),
  error.ignore = FALSE,
  verbose = TRUE,
  raw = FALSE,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- code:

  String with a maximum length of 15 characters for a database object.
  Only one code per iteration.

- database:

  Character string. Indicator if the GENESIS ('genesis'), Zensus 2022
  ('zensus'), regionalstatistik.de ('regio'), statistikdaten.bayern.de
  ('bayern'), landesdatenbank.nrw.de ('nrw'), bildungsmonitoring.de
  ('bildung') or genesis.sachsen-anhalt.de ('sa') database is called. If
  all databases should be checked, use 'all'. Default option is 'all'.

- category:

  Character string. Specifying the specific object type of the object
  that you want meta data for. No default option - you need to specify
  the object type. Hint: The functions in 'restatis' often return
  information on object 'Type'.

- area:

  Character string. Indicator from which area of the database the
  results are called. In general, 'all' is the appropriate solution.
  Default option is 'all'. Not used for 'statistics'.

- error.ignore:

  Boolean. Indicator if the function should stop if an error occurs or
  no object for the request is found or if it should produce a token as
  response. Default option is 'FALSE'. Important note: This does not
  apply to errors generated by the API call itself (especially server or
  client errors with status codes 5xx or 4xx). In this case, the
  function call will error even if error.ignore is set to TRUE.

- verbose:

  Boolean. Indicator if the output of the function should include
  detailed messages and warnings. Default option is 'TRUE'. Set the
  parameter to 'FALSE' to suppress additional messages and warnings.

- raw:

  Boolean. Should a non-parsed API response be returned? Default option
  is 'FALSE'.

- ...:

  Additional parameters for the API call. These parameters are only
  affecting the call itself, no further processing. For more details see
  [`vignette("additional_parameter")`](https://correlaid.github.io/restatis/articles/additional_parameter.md).

## Value

A list with all recalled elements from the API. Attributes are added to
the data.frame describing the search configuration for the returned
output.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Find meta-information of the table with the code "11111"
object <- gen_metadata(code = "11111", category = "table", database = "genesis")
} # }
```
